In one of the last videos i introduced you to the
polar coordinate system. In this little example
here i've simply written a short loop. Inside this
loop i now use our little mathematical formula
to calculate the x and y value inside our
circle line and then i use the translate to move
around the circle and then using rotate and
rect. I just draw these little rectangles then,
that are rotated to make them look like
they are facing the center of a circle.
In this little example here, we already use
a couple of commands. We have background,
fill, translate, push, rotate, rect, etc. These
functions are specific functions from the p5.js
library. This means that the open source
community behind p5.js has written them. And
each function is again a series of commands that
then create those shapes for example. It makes
it easier for us, to create shapes, because we
don't need to write all these individual commands,
we can just use the functions from p5.js and
they then execute the other commands for us.
So functions in general are the idea to combine
reusable code. If you're doing something over and
over again in your code, it's not very efficient
to write it every time, but instead it's better
to turn it into a function and then reuse the
function. So you only need to write the code once.
To explain this, let's imagine that
we are using the polar coordinate
equation in a couple of places in our code and it
would be a lot of writing if we need to write our
equation every time. So it would be nice if we had
a little function let's say polarX, that returns
the x-coordinate when we provide as
parameters the radius and the angle.
Let's create our first function. To define a
function, we simply write "function" and then we
need to give our function a name. And here the
same naming convention as for variables apply.
Let's call it polarX. Some brackets and inside
the brackets we can now define the parameters,
that need to be provided to our function.
Let's call it r for radius and a for angle.
Add our little function here. Now we simply need
to change the name of our variables that they
match the parameter names and then of course we
want to return something after this function is
executed. And in this case we want to return
the x value. And you can return anything,
you can return arrays, objects, whatever. But
it needs to be one single item that you return
and of course you can do the
same for the y-coordinate.
Let's just copy this, rename everything
and for y we need to use sine function.
And now we can call wherever we need these
x/y coordinates, we simply can write polarX,
then we need to provide the radius and
the angle, we can simply copy this,
change the name,
and we get the same outcome. The code is now a
lot cleaner. And imagine now you have hundreds
of lines of code and you're calling calling the
polarY and polarY coordinate over and over again,
it's a lot less writing, it's a lot more
efficient. And also, if you change the function,
you only need to change it in one, in the single
place and not all over your code, which is really
nice. And as i said we can return not only a
single number, we can for example return objects.
Let's make this a little less code by creating
one function that returns both x and y value.
We simply place this inside here and now instead
of the individual variable we return an object.
We add the x key and the x
value and we do the same for y.
And then we can get rid of the other
function. Now we could generate a little point
calling the "polar" function and then
we can access the y and x parameter
in our object that is returned by the function.
So functions allow you to structure your code
more efficiently, make it more reusable.
This also allows you for example to
simply copy a function to your next
project and reuse it in your next project.